# 007. Terraform

## Context

Serverless has the problem of narrowing available functionality from CloudFormation, which itself narrows functionality from AWS. For instance, CloudFormation can create stacks no larger than 200 resources, and Serverless wants to put everything in one CloudFormation stack. In short, Serverless is good for a basic API, but it's not very appropriate for other cloud resources.

In my research I kept running across Terraform. It is a less magical, more granular tool. It's open source and has very broad support for provisioning AWS resources and other services. It was called out in the book Infrastructure as Code several years ago, and it has had all that time to mature.

## Decision

I will use Terraform for infrastructure definition and deployment, not Serverless.

## Status

Accepted

## Consequences

I was able to reprovision the whole Serverless stack in Terraform and separate that from the API definition and build process.

It's tedious to write these definitions, at least at first, but no more tedious than manually building CloudFormation templates would be, and it's a lot of fun. I've also learned a lot about how API Gateway and Lambda and IAM roles work, just from having to address each piece of their schemas.

I had to discard the serverless-offline debugging plugin, so now I don't have a local API debugging solution.

I also found that API Gateway's deployments are not regular cloud resources like practically everything else Terraform expects to manage. When you mutate some resource it depends on, it doesn't get recreated like AWS expects you to do. So I created a post-apply script step that specifically redeploys the API. This is not necessarily Terraform's fault, but it is a challenge, and I'm wary of what else might have unique behavior at deployment time.
